Next, let's look at functions and how we can work with
functions in Python. Functions are the order first or initial way how you may get exposed to writing
some reusable code. Now, to write a function that the most simple thing
that you can do is like, I have it right
here in this cell, you will need to use
the DEF, D-E-F keyword. That will say, hey, I'm going to start the
definition for a function. Then you continue with a name, no spaces, and that's
followed by parentheses. And lastly with a colon. And then the next line,
the following line, needs to be indented so
that in Python will mean, hey, this next line is
part of these function. In every single line that comes in as part of
this function will have to be indented at least
four spaces in this case. If I run this, it will create this
function called simple and whenever I call it, it will produce these outputs. If I run this right here, you will see that it prints, this is a function. Now, when I started working
with functions in Python, this was a little bit confusing for me because sometimes I
wanted to catch these value, these is a print statement. But there's a core difference in functions of functions that do a half-like actions and
functions that return values. So not, not all functions
that do things will return a value and when you have a function
that returns a value, well, that's great, but
not all of them do. There's a slight
difference, in this case, this is a function that does something and it
doesn't return a value. There's no return value there. What happens if I want to assign the simple function
that is going to do a print statement to the result variable
and then print it out. What will happen? I'm
going to run this. You'll see this
is a function and the value of result is none. I'm getting a none and that
is because in Python you will always get an implicit
return value of none. If you return a value, that's good but if you don't, python implicitly will
assign a value of none. There's nothing here
being returned. Although these things
printed this is a function. It is something to
keep in mind and you have to be able to
acknowledge that there's, there's a thing there
that might return or not return and if he doesn't return,
you'll get a none. If you want to return
a value, in this case, I'm returning previews
the preview function is going to return a value, and I'm going to call
it right here and then assign it to the result and
I'm going to bring that. I'm going to execute the cell and I'm going
to get the result. This is a return value. That's, that's it. Those are some of the basic
operations that you can do. That's how you create you
write a basic function. Functions can do things and
not necessarily return. If they don't return, you will have a none as value. If they do, well, you'll have the
ability to capture that value that is
being returned. That is how you work
with functions.
