Let's see how we can
add data to lists, so before we've seen how we can define a list and
we do that with square brackets or
a straight brackets and we've also seen that
sometimes we can append things. Let's append some things, some items to these fruits list and you can see again that
he preserves the order, but another thing that
it's similar to append, is that you can do an insert. That's something
that you might want to use every now and then, depending on the type of operations that you're
doing with data. In this case, I want
to use the index of zero and insert a melon. If I do that, I will be able to insert melon, the first position,
the index of zero, and then followed by
orange and apple. Remember lists, keep
track of positioning, keep track of order but if
you want to alter that order, well, you will be able
to use insert for that because it allows
you to pass an index. You have to watch out because
the index is required. If I take this out and
try to run this again, I'm going to get
into trouble here. I'm going to get
a type error and insert expected two
arguments got one. The index number is absolutely
100 percent required. Now, you can add one
list to another one, which is something that
we have not seen yet. Lists can use the
addition up right here to create or extend or produce a list that will be
the addition of two lists. We have vegetables and we have cucumber and carrots
in the vegetable list. I'm going to add fruits and vegetables and then
see what happens. We add those two, we're going to
produce this list. It has all of the
items together, so we grab two lists, and put them together
as a new one. That's good and you can
definitely use the addition. Now, what happens if you want to append a list to
an existing list. Here before we have two lists
and we did the addition there and you can see that
we produce these lists here, but what happens when you want to append a list to
an existing list, so let's see what happens. We had shopping list was
fruits and vegetables. We wanted to append
sugar and salt. What will happen here we will
have melon, orange, apple, cucumber and carrots, but now we have a
list within a list. Now, that may be what you want to have a list
within a list, but if that's not what
you want to have, then what you want
to do is to extend. Now extend a list is similar to appending to a list
or adding them, actually appending
all of the items in the other list or
adding both lists. You can say shopping list
that extend and then pass the list in this
case is just sugar and salt and let's see what
happens when I do that. Perfect. You're going to
end up with no nested list. Those are a few
ways where you can add more data to
list and work with different types of lists
and append them or extend them and even do
addition of lists, like add two lists together.
