Now let's do a little bit of
data extraction from lists. Now, in the past few lessons, we've seen that we can
definitely retrieve values using an
index from a list. Here we have a list of colors, red, yellow, green, and blue. We can retrieve that specific
item by using the index. In this case, I'm
using zero and I will produce the red
one. That's great. What happens if we want to do a range or we want to use a
subset, how do we do that? We wouldn't be able to
that with just indexes. That's where the slicing
operation comes into play. That's used with a
colon right here. I'm using square brackets
and then Column 3. If I run this, you can see
it's red, yellow, green, because it will produce just the first three items
red, yellow, and green. Again, I'm using
here the indexes. If I wanted to do
just the first two, I will change that
to two and it will produce just red and yellow. That is a very nifty
way of producing subset of list if you know the range that
you want to work with. Now, where it gets
tricky and actually I have to check these all the time because I can
never get it right, is a slicing for the
last three items. I sometimes use 2 minus 2 here, and I will do this, but that doesn't yield
the right things. What you need to do
is pass negative 3 at the beginning and they'll
get you yellow, green, blue. Again, yellow, green, and blue will be the second, third, and fourth item. That's produced
with a negative 3. Now, you can also slice for a range which makes it
really interesting here. You can extract
yellow and green. If I scroll all the way up, you can see that it
will do this one which is index of
the second item and the third item or index
of one and an index of two. That's how you would
slice for a range. Now, you can also pop
an item from the list, but the index number must exist. In this case, I want to pop the item Number 100,
that doesn't exist. I'm going to get an index error, pop index out of range. There is no 100
items in that list. I'm going to get a problem like an exception being raised. Use an existing item
to pop correctly. If I do that, I'm going to
assign and that's nicer thing here because the popped item gets returned so you can
assign it to a variable. I have assigned a capture the
value popped_item variable. You can see here that
he popped the index of one and that was yellow. Now, popping alters the lists. Now you can see the yellow is no longer part of these lists. Now we are left with
red, green, and blue. Another thing that you
can do if you don't really care about what you're removing is what you're popping
is used to remove method. Callers that remove
and then pass brands and use blue and run this and it is going to remove
blue out of the way. It's going to find where it is. The operation it has a couple of steps is going
to find where blue is and it's going to remove that
item from the list and the result is going to be this list and only has red and green and blue is
no longer there. There you have it.
That's a few new ways for extracting data from lists.
