This is one of those data
structures in Python, that is one of the most
common data structures that you will find. What they are in essence, it's just a container of items. As you can see here we are
having here numbers, integers. But in reality you can have any type inside of
these square brackets. Lists are defined by square brackets and when
you define them, of course, you're going to have
some output here, that's going to represent exactly the same thing
as when you create them. Now, I said that
you can actually have any type of
datatype in here. I'm going to have an
integer or a string, Boolean and a float and
that will work too. That's a good thing that there's no constraints on to what you can add to these
types of containers. It's a list, but
I see it more as a container of things
where we can put items, put data, and then work with it. You can also find more
things about a list. You can always call the
Len built-in function. In this case, I'm passing
a dictionary here. You can see them. I have four items in here. You can define a list by
assigning to a variable. We've seen how to
assign items to a variable and in this case, I am running items
equals carrots, peas, and salary to have
these three strings, then I'm retrieving
by the index. What does that mean? Well, every single item
in a list has an index, a position and in Python, the first index starts
at the zero number, so it's, the index 0
is the first item. That is why when you want to retrieve an item, in this case, I'm using the
square brackets and the zero integer that will give me the first
item in that list, so it preserves the order, which is pretty important. Because it preserves the order, the index is important. I want to get the first item
in my list so I get items, square brackets zero
will provide me carrots. If I change that to one, that will be peas. However, there's
other neat tricks that you can do with lists. You can do negative integers, which will take the last item. In that case, that
salary from way back. But if I wanted to get the second-to-last,
that will be peas. If I click here,
that will be peas. That's how you would work a
little bit with dictionaries. That's the notation.
The indexing can be pretty confusing, especially because
it starts at zero. Some people expect
that to be a one. But if you keep that in mind, you will have a nice way to interact with a list when you
want to extract some items.
